feat: adding high contrast document to the FAST documentation website (#4178)
microsoft/fast: sites/website/src/docs/design-systems/high-contrast.md

---
id: high-contrast
title: High Contrast in FAST
sidebar_label: High Contrast
custom_edit_url: https://github.com/microsoft/fast/edit/master/sites/website/src/docs/design-systems/high-contrast.md
---

## Styling components using forced-colors.
High contrast mode uses the CSS media feature, [`forced-colors`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@media/forced-colors). When `forced-colors` is set to `active`, the user agent will apply a limited color palette to the component.

**Example:**
```css
@media (forced-colors: active) {
    :host {
        background: ButtonFace;
    }
}
```

> FAST has a [forcedColorsStylesheetBehavior](https://github.com/microsoft/fast/blob/master/packages/web-components/fast-foundation/src/utilities/match-media-stylesheet-behavior.ts) utility function that is used to construct `forced-colors` in the stylesheet. This function is passed to the `withBehavior` function from the `css` tagged template object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
FAST has a [forcedColorsStylesheetBehavior](https://github.com/microsoft/fast/blob/master/packages/web-components/fast-foundation/src/utilities/match-media-stylesheet-behavior.ts) utility function that is used to construct `forced-colors` in a stylesheet. This function is passed to the `withBehavior` function from the `css` tagged template object.
```

:::note

> The reason for this behavior is to avoid the runtime cost applying forced-color style rules when the UA does not match the forced-colors @media query, FAST exposes a behavior that conditionally adds and removes stylesheets based on the forced-colors @media query. forced-colors stylesheets can then be conditionally applied where necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The reason for this behavior is to avoid the runtime cost of applying forced-color style rules when the UA does not match the forced-colors @media query. FAST exposes a behavior that conditionally adds and removes stylesheets based on the forced-colors @media query. Forced-colors stylesheets can then be conditionally applied where necessary.
```

> The reason for this behavior is to avoid the runtime cost applying forced-color style rules when the UA does not match the forced-colors @media query, FAST exposes a behavior that conditionally adds and removes stylesheets based on the forced-colors @media query. forced-colors stylesheets can then be conditionally applied where necessary.

Reviewer 2: just for my info: What is _UA_?

Author: User Agent

> The reason for this behavior is to avoid the runtime cost applying forced-color style rules when the UA does not match the forced-colors @media query, FAST exposes a behavior that conditionally adds and removes stylesheets based on the forced-colors @media query. forced-colors stylesheets can then be conditionally applied where necessary.

Reviewer 2: Ah yes, this is the proper way to comment on spelling and such :P

 `.withBehaviors(
    forcedColorsStylesheetBehavior(
        css`
            :host {
                background: ${SystemColors.ButtonFace};
            }
        `
    )
);
```

## Forced colors and Windows High Contrast themes
[forced-colors](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@media/forced-colors) works with Windows high contrast, located in Ease of Access within Settings. There are two default themes to test high contrast, `High Contrast Black` and `High Contrast White`.

![High contrast black theme](https://static.fast.design/assets/high-contrast/hc-black.png)
![High contrast white theme](https://static.fast.design/assets/high-contrast/hc-white.png)

Here is a 1:1 map between the `forced-colors` keywords and Windows high contrast resource names.

| forced-colors               | Windows         |
|-----------------------------|-----------------|
| `CanvasText`                | `Text`          |
| `LinkText`                  | `Hyperlinks`    |
| `GrayText`                  | `Disabled Text` |
| `HighlightText` `Highlight` | `Selected Text` |
| `ButtonText` `ButtonFace`   | `Button Text`   |
| `Canvas`                    | `Background`    |

## Quick demo

> Here is a simple example adding high contrast to style an accent button. It has selectors for rest, active, hover, focus and disabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is a simple example of adding high contrast to style an accent button. It has selectors for rest, active, hover, focus, and disabled.
```

```ts
export const AccentButtonStyles = css`
    :host([appearance="accent"]) {
        background: ${accentFillRestBehavior.var};
        color: ${accentForegroundCutRestBehavior.var};
    }
    :host([appearance="accent"]:hover) {
        background: ${accentFillHoverBehavior.var};
    }
    :host([appearance="accent"]:active) .control:active {
        background: ${accentFillActiveBehavior.var};
    }
    :host([appearance="accent"]) .control:${focusVisible} {
        box-shadow: 0 0 0 calc(var(--focus-outline-width) * 1px) inset ${neutralFocusInnerAccentBehavior.var};
    }
    :host([appearance="accent"][disabled]) {
        opacity: var(--disabled-opacity);
        background: ${accentFillRestBehavior.var};
    }
`
```

When high contrast is enabled, the system will try to apply the correct color. In the case of this accent button, the system is missing a few things. We do not have a background, `rest` and `hover` states are the same, `focus` is not following the button's `focus` design, and the `disabled` state is too dim.

![Accent button no forced colors](https://static.fast.design/assets/high-contrast/accent-no-forced-colors.png)

> To fix this, we will pass a [forcedColorsStylesheetBehavior](https://github.com/microsoft/fast/blob/master/packages/web-components/fast-foundation/src/utilities/match-media-stylesheet-behavior.ts) object to `withBehaviors`, using similar selectors, and setting property values with `SystemColors` keyword.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To fix this, we will pass a [forcedColorsStylesheetBehavior](https://github.com/microsoft/fast/blob/master/packages/web-components/fast-foundation/src/utilities/match-media-stylesheet-behavior.ts) object to `withBehaviors`, using similar selectors, and setting property values with the `SystemColors` keyword.
```

```css
export const AccentButtonStyles = css`
    /* ... */
`.withBehaviors(
    forcedColorsStylesheetBehavior(
        css`
            :host([appearance="accent"]) .control {

>                 forced-color-adjust: none;

Author: yes, I think we should. I will add a side note with more description on it.

>                 forced-color-adjust: none;

Author: added notes

                background: ${SystemColors.Highlight};
                color: ${SystemColors.HighlightText};
            }
            :host([appearance="accent"]) .control:hover,
            :host([appearance="accent"]:active) .control:active {
                background: ${SystemColors.HighlightText};
                border-color: ${SystemColors.Highlight};
                color: ${SystemColors.Highlight};
            }
            :host([appearance="accent"]) .control:${focusVisible} {
                border-color: ${SystemColors.ButtonText};
                box-shadow: 0 0 0 2px ${SystemColors.HighlightText} inset;
            }
            :host([appearance="accent"][disabled]),
            :host([appearance="accent"][disabled]) .control,
            :host([appearance="accent"][disabled]) .control:hover {
                background: ${SystemColors.ButtonFace};
                border-color: ${SystemColors.GrayText};
                color: ${SystemColors.GrayText};
                opacity: 1;
            }
        `
    )
);
```

> After adding [forced-colors](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@media/forced-colors) and applying the keywords, the accent button now has a background to the rest state, and we are using the `Highlight` color. On the hover and active state, the look is reversed from the rest state. Focus gets a double border treatment and disabled has opacity set to 1 and uses the disabled color, `GrayText`, on the border and content.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After adding `forced-colors` and applying `SystemColors` keywords, the accent button now uses `Highlight` as a background for its `rest` state. On the `hover` and `active` states, the background and color from the `rest` state are swapped. A double border treatment is applied when in the `focus` state, and the `disabled` state has opacity set to 1 and uses the `GrayText` for color on the border and content.
```

![Accent button forced colors](https://static.fast.design/assets/high-contrast/accent-with-forced-colors.png)

### Further resources

**Color contrast comparison chart**

> To help determine whether a pair of high contrast colors will meet a color luminosity contrast ratio of at least 10:1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To help determine whether a pair of high contrast colors will meet a color luminosity contrast ratio of at least 10:1,
```

> This table uses the high contrast theme color resource names you see in Windows Ease of Access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
this table uses the high contrast theme color resource names you see in Windows Ease of Access.
```

| **Selected Text (Foreground)**  | NO               | `YES*`           | `YES*  `         | NO                         | <mark>YES</mark>           | `YES*`                   | NO                       | NO               |
| **Selected Text (Background)**  | NO               | NO               | NO               | <mark>YES</mark>           | NO                         | NO                       | `YES*`                   | `YES*`           |
| **Button Text (Foreground)**    | NO               | NO               | NO               | `YES*`                     | NO                         | NO                       | <mark>YES</mark>         | <mark>YES</mark> |
| **Button Text (Background)**    | <mark>YES</mark> | `YES*`           | <mark>YES</mark> | NO                         | `YES*`                     | <mark>YES</mark>         | NO                       | NO               |
| **Background**                  | <mark>YES</mark> | <mark>YES</mark> | <mark>YES</mark> | NO                         | `YES*`                     | <mark>YES</mark>         | NO                       | NO               |

### Microsoft Edge blog

> Microsoft Edge blog has an excellent in-depth information on styling for Windows high contrast using forced-colors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Microsoft Edge blog has excellent and in-depth information on styling for Windows high contrast using forced-colors.
```

---
id: high-contrast
title: High Contrast in FAST
sidebar_label: High Contrast
custom_edit_url: https://github.com/microsoft/fast/edit/master/sites/website/src/docs/design-systems/high-contrast.md
---

## Styling components using forced-colors.
High contrast mode uses the CSS media feature, [`forced-colors`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@media/forced-colors). When `forced-colors` is set to `active`, the user agent will apply a limited color palette to the component.

**Example:**
```css
@media (forced-colors: active) {
    :host {
        background: ButtonFace;
    }
}
```

FAST has a [forcedColorsStylesheetBehavior](https://github.com/microsoft/fast/blob/master/packages/web-components/fast-foundation/src/utilities/match-media-stylesheet-behavior.ts) utility function that is used to construct `forced-colors` in a stylesheet. This function is passed to the `withBehavior` function from the `css` tagged template object.

:::note

> The reason for this behavior is to avoid the runtime cost applying forced-color style rules when the UA does not match the forced-colors @media query, FAST exposes a behavior that conditionally adds and removes stylesheets based on the forced-colors @media query. forced-colors stylesheets can then be conditionally applied where necessary.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The reason for this behavior is to avoid the runtime cost of applying forced-color style rules when the UA does not match the forced-colors @media query, FAST exposes a behavior that conditionally adds and removes stylesheets based on the forced-colors @media query. forced-colors stylesheets can then be conditionally applied where necessary.
```

> The reason for this behavior is to avoid the runtime cost of applying forced-color style rules when the UA does not match the forced-colors @media query, FAST exposes a behavior that conditionally adds and removes stylesheets based on the forced-colors @media query. forced-colors stylesheets can then be conditionally applied where necessary.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The reason for this behavior is to avoid the runtime cost of applying forced-color style rules when the UA does not match the forced-colors @media query. FAST exposes a behavior that conditionally adds and removes stylesheets based on the forced-colors @media query. `forced-colors` stylesheets can then be conditionally applied where necessary.
```

            }
            :host([appearance="accent"]) .control:${focusVisible} {
                border-color: ${SystemColors.ButtonText};
                box-shadow: 0 0 0 2px ${SystemColors.HighlightText} inset;
            }
            :host([appearance="accent"][disabled]),
            :host([appearance="accent"][disabled]) .control,
            :host([appearance="accent"][disabled]) .control:hover {
                background: ${SystemColors.ButtonFace};
                border-color: ${SystemColors.GrayText};
                color: ${SystemColors.GrayText};
                opacity: 1;
            }
        `
    )
);
```

After adding `forced-colors` and applying `SystemColors` keywords, the accent button now uses `Highlight` as a background for its `rest` state. On the `hover` and `active` states, the background and color from the `rest` state are swapped. A double border treatment is applied when in the `focus` state, and the `disabled` has opacity set to 1 and uses the disabled color, `GrayText`, for color on the border and content.

![Accent button forced colors](https://static.fast.design/assets/high-contrast/accent-with-forced-colors.png)

> :::note

Reviewer 4: Is the triple colon note a standard that we use? I don't see it in Markdown documentation and it isn't formatting this block... is it supposed to?

Author: @brookdozer that is a good question. I saw that our "FAST Frame" and "Creating a Design System" documentation was using it, so I did the same.

---
id: high-contrast
title: High Contrast in FAST
sidebar_label: High Contrast
custom_edit_url: https://github.com/microsoft/fast/edit/master/sites/website/src/docs/design-systems/high-contrast.md
---

## Styling components using forced-colors.

> High contrast mode uses the CSS media feature, `forced-colors`. When `forced-colors` is set to active, the user agent will apply a limited color palette to the component.

Reviewer 6: I think we should link externally to https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@media/forced-colors here so folks are able to learn more about what forced-colors are if they're unfamiliar.

**Example:**
```css
@media (forced-colors: active) {
    :host {
        background: ButtonFace;
    }
}
```

> FAST has a utility function that is use to construct `forced-colors` in the stylesheet, called [forcedColorsStylesheetBehavior()](https://github.com/microsoft/fast/blob/master/packages/web-components/fast-foundation/src/utilities/match-media-stylesheet-behavior.ts). This is added in the `withBehavior()` function inside the `css` style.

Reviewer 6: Lets add a note here about *why* this behavior exists - something along the lines of:

"To avoid the runtime cost applying forced-color style rules when the UA does not match the forced-colors @media query, FAST exposes a behavior that conditionally adds and removes stylesheets based on the forced-colors @media query. forced-colors stylesheets can then be conditionally applied where necessary."

**Example**
```css
export const ComponentStyles = css`
    /* ... */
 `.withBehaviors(
    forcedColorsStylesheetBehavior(
        css`
            :host {
                background: ButtonFace;
            }
        `
    )
);
```

## System Color Keyword
In `forced-colors` mode, the colors on the component are reduced to a limited color pallete chosen by the user. The system color keyword exposes these user chosen colors.

Below are the system color keywords we use in FAST. The keywords are used as color values on style properties.

> 

Reviewer 6: I think we should probably just link to https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/web/css/color_value#System_Colors instead of hosting this information ourselves.

            :host([appearance="accent"][disabled]) .control,
            :host([appearance="accent"][disabled]) .control:hover {
                background: ${SystemColors.ButtonFace};
                border-color: ${SystemColors.GrayText};
                color: ${SystemColors.GrayText};
                opacity: 1;
            }
        `
    )
);
```

After adding `forced-colors` and applying the keywords, the accent button now has a background to the rest state, and we are using the `Highlight` color. On the hover and active state, the look is reversed from the rest state. Focus gets a double border treatment and disabled has opacity set to 1 and uses the disabled color, `GrayText`, on the border and content.

![Accent button forced colors](https://res.cloudinary.com/dm4izfqmy/image/upload/v1607550781/highContrast_examples/hc-document/acccent-with-forced-colors_v76kif.png)

### Further resources

**Color contrast comparison chart**

To help determine whether a pair of high contrast colors will meet a color luminosity contrast ratio of at least 10:1
This table uses the high contrast theme color resource names you see in Windows Ease of Access.

How to read this table:

> - <mark>YES</mark> - indicates that it is safe to assume this pair of colors will meet high contrast requirements, even in custom themes.

Reviewer 6: Is this chart something we made or is it sourced from another location?

Author: This was a chart Rory had put together to help with keyword combinations. I had used it in the other wiki doc and thought of adding it here too.

---

> id: high-contrast-document

Reviewer 5: Since the `id` will be what shows up in the url, let's change this to just be "high-contrast".

title: High Contrast in FAST
sidebar_label: High Contrast
custom_edit_url: https://github.com/microsoft/fast/edit/master/sites/website/src/docs/design-systems/high-contrast.md
---

> ### Styling components using forced-colors.

Reviewer 5: The rest of our docs have L2 headers at the root. So, let's switch this and the other headers at this same level over.

| `CanvasText`      | Text in application content or documents.                                         |
| `LinkText`        | Text in non-active, non-visited links. For light backgrounds, traditionally blue. |
| `VisitedText`     | Text in visited links. For light backgrounds, traditionally purple.               |
| `ActiveText`      | Text in active links. For light backgrounds, traditionally red.                   |
| `ButtonFace`      | The face background color for push buttons.                                       |
| `ButtonText`      | Text on push buttons.                                                             |
| `Field`           | Background of input fields.                                                       |
| `FieldText`       | Text in input fields.                                                             |
| `Highlight`       | Background of selected items/text.                                                |
| `HighlightText`   | Text of selected items/text.                                                      |
| `GrayText`        | Disabled text. (Often, but not necessarily, gray.)                                |

> FAST uses the [SystemColor](https://github.com/microsoft/fast/blob/master/packages/utilities/fast-web-utilities/src/system-colors.ts) enum when setting the color value keyword in the stylesheet.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
FAST uses the [SystemColors](https://github.com/microsoft/fast/blob/master/packages/utilities/fast-web-utilities/src/system-colors.ts) enum when setting the color value keyword in the stylesheet.
```

**Example**
```css
export const ComponentStyles = css`
    /* ... */
 `.withBehaviors(
    forcedColorsStylesheetBehavior(
        css`
            :host {
                background: ${SystemColors.ButtonFace};
            }
        `
    )
);
```

### Forced colors and Windows High Contrast themes
`forced-colors` works with Windows high contrast, located in Ease of Access within Settings. There are two default themes to test high contrast, `High Contrast Black` and `High Contrast White`.

![High contrast black theme](https://res.cloudinary.com/dm4izfqmy/image/upload/v1607550781/highContrast_examples/hc-document/hc-black_kkp16d.png)

> ![High contrast white theme](https://res.cloudinary.com/dm4izfqmy/image/upload/v1607550781/highContrast_examples/hc-document/hc-white_fnktij.png)

Reviewer 5: Need to confirm with @awentzel whether we can have these external image links.

Author: Yeah, I really don't want to use the external links. I tried following the document to add images here, https://github.com/microsoft/fast/blob/master/build/operations/README.md, under Azure CDN, but was not successful. @awentzel could you help? Not sure what I am missing. The use of the external link is temporary.

Author: The link is updated. The only way to see if the images will show up is if they are pushed to master.

Here is a 1:1 map between the `forced-colors` keywords and Windows high contrast resource names.

| forced-colors               | Windows         |
|-----------------------------|-----------------|
| `CanvasText`                | `Text`          |
| `LinkText`                  | `Hyperlinks`    |
| `GrayText`                  | `Disabled Text` |
| `HighlightText` `Highlight` | `Selected Text` |
| `ButtonText` `ButtonFace`   | `Button Text`   |
| `Canvas`                    | `Background`    |

### Quick demo

Here is a simple example adding high contrast to style an accent button. It has selectors for rest, active, hover, focus and disabled.

> ![Accent button](https://res.cloudinary.com/dm4izfqmy/image/upload/v1607550781/highContrast_examples/hc-document/acccent_vmbajs.png)

Reviewer 5: Need to check on this external image.

Author: updated url

```css
export const AccentButtonStyles = css`
    :host([appearance="accent"]) {
        background: ${accentFillRestBehavior.var};
        color: ${accentForegroundCutRestBehavior.var};
    }
    :host([appearance="accent"]:hover) {
        background: ${accentFillHoverBehavior.var};
    }
    :host([appearance="accent"]:active) .control:active {
        background: ${accentFillActiveBehavior.var};
    }
    :host([appearance="accent"]) .control:${focusVisible} {
        box-shadow: 0 0 0 calc(var(--focus-outline-width) * 1px) inset ${neutralFocusInnerAccentBehavior.var};
    }
    :host([appearance="accent"][disabled]) {
        opacity: var(--disabled-opacity);
        background: ${accentFillRestBehavior.var};
    }
`
```

When high contrast is enabled, the system will try to apply the correct color. In the case of this accent button, the system is missing a few things. We do not have a background, rest and hover state is the same, focus is not following the button focus design, and the disabled state is too dim.

> ![Accent button no forced colors](https://res.cloudinary.com/dm4izfqmy/image/upload/v1607550781/highContrast_examples/hc-document/acccent-no-forced-colors_h0peqd.png)

Reviewer 5: Check external asset.

Author: updated url

            :host([appearance="accent"]:active) .control:active {
                background: ${SystemColors.HighlightText};
                border-color: ${SystemColors.Highlight};
                color: ${SystemColors.Highlight};
            }
            :host([appearance="accent"]) .control:${focusVisible} {
                border-color: ${SystemColors.ButtonText};
                box-shadow: 0 0 0 2px ${SystemColors.HighlightText} inset;
            }
            :host([appearance="accent"][disabled]),
            :host([appearance="accent"][disabled]) .control,
            :host([appearance="accent"][disabled]) .control:hover {
                background: ${SystemColors.ButtonFace};
                border-color: ${SystemColors.GrayText};
                color: ${SystemColors.GrayText};
                opacity: 1;
            }
        `
    )
);
```

After adding `forced-colors` and setting the keywords, accent button now has a background in the rest state, and in this case we are using the `Highlight` color. The hover state is reversed from the rest state, focus gets a double border treatment and disabled has opacity set to 1 and using the disabled color, `GrayText`.

> ![Accent button forced colors](https://res.cloudinary.com/dm4izfqmy/image/upload/v1607550781/highContrast_examples/hc-document/acccent-with-forced-colors_v76kif.png)

Reviewer 5: Check external asset.

Author: updated url

## Further resources

> **Color contrast comparison chart**

Reviewer 5: Let's make this an L3 header.

| **Selected Text (Foreground)**  | NO               | `YES*`           | `YES*  `         | NO                         | <mark>YES</mark>           | `YES*`                   | NO                       | NO               |
| **Selected Text (Background)**  | NO               | NO               | NO               | <mark>YES</mark>           | NO                         | NO                       | `YES*`                   | `YES*`           |
| **Button Text (Foreground)**    | NO               | NO               | NO               | `YES*`                     | NO                         | NO                       | <mark>YES</mark>         | <mark>YES</mark> |
| **Button Text (Background)**    | <mark>YES</mark> | `YES*`           | <mark>YES</mark> | NO                         | `YES*`                     | <mark>YES</mark>         | NO                       | NO               |
| **Background**                  | <mark>YES</mark> | <mark>YES</mark> | <mark>YES</mark> | NO                         | `YES*`                     | <mark>YES</mark>         | NO                       | NO               |

> **Microsoft Edge blog**

Reviewer 5: Let's make this an L3 header.
